# Here We Go Again

Blogging is one of the least sustainable activities you can involve yourself with in your digital existence. It is rather interesting to see how much we have got to say online - given our social media tendencies - yet lack the discipline to do it in a consistent manner. For the developer kind, another problem exists apart from failing to blog sustainably: Deciding to build your blogging platform from scratch on which you will most likely fail to blog. A wasted effort of a terrible kind; Even it succeeds, it succeeds to waste more effort.

Having said that, I recently ended up completing my blogging platform from scratch. I undertook the task as a part of my commitment to my personal development through side projects. The platform is Jekyll-like. I write up a file in markdown syntax which the backend renders as a page in HTML. There are still lots of to-do's but I am ready to be blogging in which I will most likely fail - statistically speaking. And it wouldn't even be my first time. 

For last two years or so, I have been meaning to find time to begin blogging again as there have been so many milestones in my life that I wanted to reflect on and lessons that I wanted to internalize. I considered several new years (including Chinese, Jewish and Persian ones) to mark the beginning of my blogging and almost all the yearly quarters and birthdays. The constant flux of change didn't really allow me to stop to reflect. It felt like there was already so much more going on just ahead of me that I would be wasting my time thinking about the present or the past. It feels like writing comes with a bit of opportunity cost on my present being. But not writing is also a source of continuous regret which goes on to prove that writing is a valid long term investment in one's self.

Since the beginning of this year I have graduated my first two classes of Python-istas, had the privilege to hear I made a student enjoy programming in more than several instances, led a team of incredibly talented artists to light and render one of the most epic TV episodes to that date (Vikings S03E08), was nominated for an Emmy for our work, then quit my job to change careers. I began working as a Developer which I have been striving for, for almost 2 years, and about to get my second citizenship in a country that has been most kind to me (no surprises there given how much they like to say 'sorry').

Seven years ago or so after graduating from Materials Engineering, I made a career decision to get into Visual Effects, leaving my university education and home country behind. Back at the time, I had a blog that I was writing in to keep track of my learning and reasoning. It was a valuable propeller since I was just starting out in an entirely new field. Externalising my thoughts helped me frame and understand my own decisions. But I stopped writing once I got into the industry. Short term opportunity cost of writing was one thing but I think the main problem became that I didn't want anyone to see the imposter in me and realise how unknowledgable I was in the field.

I want to do things differently this time. I am surrounded by incredibly smart and friendly people so I came to enjoy being the noob-est guy in the room .And I would be doing myself a disservice if I wasn't taking notes (and sharing with anyone who cares to read) in this third career education that I am in. I know there is a great chance that this is a wasted effort but I would be much poorer in life and miss on so many great things if I didn't believe things would be much better the next time around.